The party, along with many of Ms May’s Conservatives and the Labour opposition, are all threatening to vote down the package.
“We were all looking for a good and fair agreement,” Mr Tusk said in a letter on Saturday to the 27 other national leaders confirming the summit will go ahead.
EU officials are unclear what might happen if parliament rejects the package and, like London, are making arrangements to manage the disruption of Britain crashing out without a deal.
DUP deputy leader Nigel Dodds said the withdrawal agreement would leave Britain in a “pitiful and pathetic place ... locked into an EU straitjacket”.
She will face an uphill struggle to have the agreement accepted by her own party and the British parliament.
Historically strategic

Saturday’s agreements may comfort Spain’s hopes that the EU will, once Britain is no longer a member, swing behind its 300-year-old claim to recover sovereignty over “The Rock”, home to a historically strategic British naval base and 30,000 people.
A last-minute deal to meet Spanish demands for a say on the future of Gibraltar after Brexit has salvaged a summit which will go ahead as planned on Sunday to deliver a Brexit accord to British prime minister Theresa May.
The Gibraltar agreement with Spain provided a reminder of the complexities that Britons have found since voting narrowly in a 2016 referendum to try to unravel 45 years of membership of what is now the world’s biggest free trade bloc.
The British government wrote to Mr Tusk’s European Council to say it would not interpret its withdrawal treaty, due to be endorsed on Sunday, as meaning that a future EU-UK trade treaty would automatically apply to Gibraltar - though London’s envoy to the EU said it would seek the best deal for its territory.
“We have received sufficient guarantees to be able to reach a solution to a conflict that has lasted more than 300 years between the United Kingdom and Spain, ” Mr Sanchez told reporters in Madrid after talks dragged on through the night in Brussels.

