Pinochet is awaiting a hearing, his fate in the balance.
The rest of the differences were not significant.
The reaction of the Chilean people was mixed.
This is not surprising, given the small number of test points.
Here, we examine the impact of frequency on various aspects of summarization and the role of frequency in the design of a summarization system.
Castro criticized the arrest, and called it unprecedented international meddling.
Similarly, of the top 5 content units, 96% appeared in a human summary across the 11 sets.
Figure 1: Summaries produced for the same input by SumBasic and by a human.
A summary produced by SumBasic, alongside a human summary for the same set is shown in figure 1.
We first discuss the impact of frequency in the input at the word level, and then look at frequency at a semantic level, using semantic content units.
The overall probability of the summary then is N!
The more people agree that a certain SCU should be included in a summary, the more important this SCU is.
Step 2 For each sentence Sj in the input, assign a weight equal to the average probability of the words in the sentence, i.e.
In section 3, we discuss SumBasic, a summarization system that we created to exploit frequency exclusively, in order to isolate the contribution of frequency.
We thus set out to construct a summarization system that exploits frequency information exclusively, in order to isolate the contribution of frequency information.
Steps 2 and 3 enforce the desired properties of the summarizer discussed in the previous section.
But will they be words that the humans will agree on, and that will appear in many human summaries?
It is obvious that the high-frequency words will be those with high-probability in the input.
The update of word probability gives a natural way to deal with the redundancy in the multidocument input.
That is, for each word w in the input vocabulary, we associate a probability p(w) for it to be emitted into a summary.
In our study of frequency and human summarization, we found that content units and words that are repeated often in the input will very likely be mentioned in a human summary.
For each set, NIST provided four humanwritten summaries and the submissions of all participating automatic summarizers.
One system was significantly better than SumBasic, and for each of the automatic metrics there were two systems that were significantly worse than SumBasic.
In this paper, we study the association of frequency of words and content units in the input and the likelihood with which they will appear in a human summary (see section 2).
American scholars applauded the arrest, saying that it set a precedent for other terrorist dictators.
Here, in order to qualify the frequency of words, we used the probability of a word in an input set—n N , where n is the number of times the word occurred in the input (its frequency) and N is the number of all words in the input.

