The party, along with many of Ms May’s Conservatives and the Labour opposition, are all threatening to vote down the package.
She will face an uphill struggle to have the agreement accepted by her own party and the British parliament.
“We were all looking for a good and fair agreement,” Mr Tusk said in a letter on Saturday to the 27 other national leaders confirming the summit will go ahead.
EU officials are unclear what might happen if parliament rejects the package and, like London, are making arrangements to manage the disruption of Britain crashing out without a deal.
At the summit on Sunday morning, the 27 EU leaders will be asked to approve a declaration specifically excluding Gibraltar from future EU-UK treaties - while leaving open the possibility that London could negotiate with Madrid on deals for Gibraltar.
But, keeping up pressure within her own Conservative party, her Brexit-supporting rival and former foreign minister Boris Johnson called on Saturday for the accord to be renegotiated.
A last-minute deal to meet Spanish demands for a say on the future of Gibraltar after Brexit has salvaged a summit which will go ahead as planned on Sunday to deliver a Brexit accord to British prime minister Theresa May.
The British government wrote to Mr Tusk’s European Council to say it would not interpret its withdrawal treaty, due to be endorsed on Sunday, as meaning that a future EU-UK trade treaty would automatically apply to Gibraltar - though London’s envoy to the EU said it would seek the best deal for its territory.
As with long months spent trying to figure out how to pull Northern Ireland out of the EU without creating a customs border with the Republic, the Gibraltar dispute has reflected problems with the UK’s European neighbours dating back to its imperial past.
“We have received sufficient guarantees to be able to reach a solution to a conflict that has lasted more than 300 years between the United Kingdom and Spain, ” Mr Sanchez told reporters in Madrid after talks dragged on through the night in Brussels.

